README.md, before:

# packgen

`packgen` is a tool that generates a packing of particles for various purposes. The primary goal is to generate an STL file with a mesh of the packing.

Currently, only hexagonal particles are implemented. 


## Installation

1. Install [Blender][blender] and add the executable to the Path; it will
be called `Blender` on macOS and `blender` on Linux. I will use `Blender` in the examples
below;
2. Install this project with `pip` or `uv pip`:

```shell
pip install git+https://github.com/cmt-dtu-energy/packgen@v0.2.1
```


## Usage

1. To run it, create a parameter file -- check the [examples](./examples/);
2. Run the following command in a directory where the 
parameter file is located:

```shell
packgen -- <path to the parameter file>
```

You can name the parameters file in any way you want; this command will open Blender,
simulate the packing, and then save `.blender` and `.stl` files in the current
directory. The filenames will have file names as `packing_<basename of parameter file>.<extention>`.

If you omit the `-- <path to the parameter file>` part, by default `packgen` will read
a file named `parameters.json` in the current directory.


[blender]: https://www.blender.org/

Commit message:

Save copy of the input json file upon execution.
This is particularly necessary to record the value of the seed used
for the random drawing of the packing simulation.

README.md, after:

# packgen

`packgen` is a tool that generates a packing of particles for various purposes. The primary goal is to generate an STL file with a mesh of the packing.

Currently, only hexagonal particles are implemented. 


## Installation

1. Install [Blender][blender] and add the executable to the Path; it will
be called `Blender` on macOS and `blender` on Linux. I will use `Blender` in the examples
below;
2. Install this project with `pip` or `uv pip`:

```shell
pip install git+https://github.com/cmt-dtu-energy/packgen@v0.2.1
```


## Usage

1. To run it, create a parameter file -- check the [examples](./examples/);
2. Run the following command in a directory where the 
parameter file is located:

```shell
packgen -- <path to the parameter file>
```

You can name the parameters file in any way you want; this command will open Blender,
simulate the packing, and then save `.blender`, `.stl`, and `.json` files in the current
directory. The filenames will have file names as `packing_<basename of parameter file>.<extention>`.
Here what they contain:

- `.blend`: the complete Blender file that can be reproduced and used for rendering;
- `.stl`: the STL file that contains only the particles, without the container;
- `.json`: a copy with the input parameters, but in particular with the value of the `seed`
that is used; you can pass a `null` value in the input file to get multiple random
drawings of the same configuration, and the output will store the value of seed used.

If you omit the `-- <path to the parameter file>` part, by default `packgen` will read
a file named `parameters.json` in the current directory.


[blender]: https://www.blender.org/
